#OBJECT OREINTED PROGRAMMING

Object Oriented Programming focuses on using classes to represent the real world and creating objects"(instance of a class)
based on these classes.
For excample we can classify House as a class with toilet, shower, kitchen , bathroom as objects.
This makes it easier to write more effecient , clean code with resuable features.

The Four Main principles:

1. Encapsulation 
- As the name goes, Encapsulation , this simply means putting methods and attribute into a single class.
Like if you have a box and you place things inside that means you have encapsulated it , you have hidden 
some things inside. The box becomes the class and the things inside become the functions and attributes.
To acheive encapsulation , we use the access  modifiers ; default, public and private 
With public modifier, the class is accessible everywhere
With private modifier , the calss becomes restricted
With the default, 


2. Abstraction
-This area focuses on whqt the object does than how it does it. It allows users to use the methods in the parent
With this, any instance that has been used in the parent class can be automatically used in the child class.

        
3. Inheirtance 
-This means making use of the properties of the parent class.This works when using child calsses.A child can
simply inherite or take up the features of it's parent buy simply passing the parent as a parameter .This 
indicate that the class is using the features/methods of the class that has been bassed as a parameter

class Backend_dev(Sofware_Engineer) 
Example:
            def __init__(self, name, position):
            super().__init__(name,position) - This also lets one class use the instance variables


4. Polymorphism 
- This achieved when the same method of the parent calss is used in the child class. So when the same method
in the witten in the child class, the one in the parent class is over witten.
For example in the parent class , full_name() prints a persons actual full name but in the child class,
when full_name(), is re-written, it only prints the firstname of the person


Benefits of Object Oriented Programming
- The components in oop are resuable even if in anoter file

- With the use of encapsulation and abstraction, developers are able to hidr their code 


